
The aim of this project is to provide a platform for players to create, manage and compete in competeive online matches. The systems core component is a web application where a user can interect with to create and manage matches. The demand for this application is due to the inconvience of trying to manage custom matches as an individual, determining which player goes on what team can be a time consuming and very inefficient. This application will automate the process of deciding which player goes on which team through matchmaking. A point system and leaderboards is also provided in order to produce a competitieve environment. How players gain points depends on the outcome of a match and the skill level of their opponenets. This application is targeted towards people who enjoy a competitive setting and want an extra layer to their gaming experience.

INTRO

Competitive online gaming has seen a significant increase in popularity in recent times. The estimated global esports audience was estimated at 335 million people in 2017 generating a revenue of more than \$900M with an estimated growth of over \$1600M in 2021.~\cite{sjoblom2019esports} Yuri Seo and Sang-Uk Jung ~\cite{seo2016beyond} outlined why people play or spectate competitive games. The main factors include entertainment and gaining a better understanding of a game. Whether spectating or participating, competitive games can consume a large portion of our free time. Organising matches need some form of administration to ensure rules are upheld. A person or system is usually responsible for this. Issues occur when an individual is accountable for for managing these games, for example, if a match has a fixed schedule but the person responsible for managing the game is unavailable, then the tournament game must be postponed. Administrators are also required to ensure matchmaking fairness between teams which can be very time consuming and unpredictable. If a person enjoys a sport or activity they will often try to take part in events that occur involving said sport. This provides a community of like-minded people ADD MORE
These factors are the reason why I've developed a service for people to manage and administrate their events or matches.